Once-in-a-lifetime films are pipe dreams for most studios, yet, here’s Marvel showing off the fact that they have us all in the palm of their hands yet again. Spider-Man: No Way Home is somehow a perfect harmony of a Saturday morning cartoon and the deep drama that we’ve come to expect from these epics. You’ll find no spoilers here, but the film will remind you repeatedly that there are a whole lot of reasons that Sony and Marvel kept the details of this one as close to the vest as possible.

Despite the fact that there’s so much we can’t talk about here, we can still find plenty of tidbits to discuss, because there’s truly never a dull moment in Spider-Man: No Way Home. That’s due in no small part to stellar performances across the board. The MCU as a whole has never been a slouch when it comes to casting. Some of the best actors in the world now hold their own respective Marvel roles. But, whether it be the pandemic or No Way Home's lack of buildup from other installments in the MCU, the performances here feel like something different. Willem Dafoe nails everything he does, but his reprisal of Norman Osborn is something for the MCU history books. His character — like the rest of the villains who find their way into Peter’s (Tom Holland) universe — is given a new depth that was never explored in previous Spider-Man films.


Built around performances like Dafoe’s — Alfred Molina’s Doc Oc and Jamie Foxx’s Electro aren’t anything to sneeze at, either — is the root of Spider-Man: No Way Home’s success. Amidst the laughs and the tears is a deep, heartfelt empathy that’s felt missing not just in the early MCU, but in the Spider-Man films that preceded this one. That’s not the fault of the creators or the performers of those respective series, but more a result of the times in which they were made, and what audiences were expecting at those times. The early live-action era of superhero fare was much more focused on thwip, thwip, bang, bang than the complex emotional impact of it all. Spider-Man: No Way Home’s empathy finds itself woven into the storyline in a way that doesn’t feel overly didactic or pandering, but instead truly drives home the ethos of Spider-Man: with great power comes great responsibility. Even when it freakin’ sucks. (Especially when it freakin’ sucks.)

What We Said About Spider-Man: Far From Home


IGN's Jim Vejvoda gave the previous Spider-Man film, Far From Home, an 8.8, writing, "Spider-Man: Far From Home is a grandly entertaining culmination of the MCU wall-crawler’s journey so far. Thanks to its sweet humor, clever commentary, and deft action set-pieces, Far From Home continues the journey of Peter Parker from kid hero to Tony Stark’s successor. The movie sets the table for some exciting new adventures ahead for Spider-Man and his place in the MCU, pitting him against an antagonist who preys on Peter Parker’s fears and insecurities in ways no other villain quite has yet. Far From Home ends Marvel's Phase Three with a hell of a bang, thrusting its young wall-crawler into a treacherous but hugely exciting new era."

The involvement of Doctor Strange (Benedict Cumberbatch) really helps to drive home the age difference between Pete and the rest of the Avengers, which furthers The Spectacular Spider-Man of it all. Underneath all of Tony Stark’s tech is a kid who just kinda wants to do kid stuff sometimes. Like, y’know, get into college or whatever.

It’s the Tony Stark of it all, though, that takes us to what may be the most exciting long-term effect of Spider-Man: No Way Home. In other canons, Peter’s involvement with Iron Man comes after he’s established himself. The scrappy kid from Queens didn’t need a billionaire to sort out his gadgets. He did it on his own. Now, we’re obviously well past that in this Peter Parker’s story, but now that we’re far enough from the fall of Stark, Spidey’s finally taking things into his own hands. Heck, the kid even uses math to get out of a desperate situation.